Marriage equality is on the rise
but despite this trend religious beliefs
remain a major obstacle to acceptance
Many conservative Christians believe
the Bible condemns
all same-sex relationships
That question drove my own intensive
study this issue I came to terms with
being gay
as my parents and my church in Kansas
believed
that gay marriage was wrong. What I learned when I studied the relevant
scripture passages
changed my parents' minds
along with the views and many other
Christians in my life.
There six passages in the Bible the
refer to same-sex behavior,
three in the Old Testament and three in
the New Testament
The most famous passage is the story of Sodom and Gomorrah.
God sends three angels disguised as
men into the cit of Sodom, where the men
of Sodom threaten to rape them
The angels blind the men, and God
destroys the city.
For centuries, this story was interpreted
as God's judgment on same-sex relations
But the only form of same-sex behavior described is a threatened gang rape.
Ezekiel 16:49 sums up the story's focus on violence
and hostility toward strangers. "And this was your sister Sodom's sin:
she and her daughters were arrogant
overfed, and unconcerned; they did not help the poor and
needy.
In Leviticus 18:22, male same-sex
intercourse
is prohibited and violators are to receive
the death penalty
Do not lie with a male as one does with a woman.
It is an abomination. Other things called
abominations in the Old Testament
include having sex during a woman's
menstrual period, eating pork, rabbit, or
shellfish,
and charging interest on loans. But they're part of the Old Testament law code,
which was fulfilled by Jesus.
Hebrews 8:13 says that the old law is
obsolete
and aging
Romans 10:4 says that Christ is the
end of the law
so the Old Testament doesn't settle the
issue for Christians. But let's look to
the New Testament, which contains the
longest reference to same-sex behavior
in the Bible
In Romans 1:26-27,
people who turned away from God to
worship idols are then turned over to
their own
lusts and vices. "Even their women
exchanged natural sexual relations
for unnatural ones. In the same way men
committed shameful acts other men
and received in themselves the due
penalty for their error.
Paul's words here are clearly negative, but
the behavior he condemns is lustful.
He makes no mention of love, commitment, or faithfulness.
His description of same-sex behavior is
based solely on a burst
of excess
and lust.
In the ancient world, same-sex behavior
mainly occurred between men and
adolescent boys,
between masters and their slaves, or with prostitutes.
Most of the men engaged in those
practices were married to women, so
same-sex behavior was widely seen as
stemming from out of control lust --
a vice of excess like, gluttony or
drunkenness.
And while Paul labels same-sex
behavior unnatural,
he says in 1 Corinthians 11:14 that for men
to wear their hair long
also goes against nature, and most
Christians interpret that as a reference
to cultural conventions.
In the last two likely references to
same-sex behavior in the Bible
two Greek words -- malakoi
and arsenokoitai -- are included in lists of people who will not inherit
God's kingdom.
Many modern translators have rendered these
terms as sweeping statements about gay
people
But the concept of sexual
orientation
didn't even exist in the ancient world. Yes,
Paul did not take a positive view of same-sex
relations
But the context he was writing in is worlds
apart
from gay people in committed, monogamous
relationships
The Bible never addresses the
issues of sexual orientation
or same-sex marriage
so there's no reason why faithful
Christians can't support
their gay brothers and sisters. It's time.
If you'd like to learn more check out my
new book
God and the Gay Christian
and sign up with The Reformation Project
to make a difference in your church.